Moved HTTPRoute reference doc into its own page (#1590)
linkerd/website: linkerd.io/content/2-edge/reference/httproute.md

Author: Ok I think it's fine to have all resource names be just capitalized, including HTTPRoute, without backticks :+1:

+++
title = "HTTPRoute"
description = "Reference guide to HTTPRoute Resources."
+++

`HTTPRoutes` can be attached (via `parentRefs`) to a
[Server](../authorization-policy/#server) to allow defining an [authorization
policy](../authorization-policy/#authorizationpolicy) for specific routes served
on that Server.

`HTTRoutes` can also be attached to a Service, in order to classify requests
depending on path, headers, query params, and/or verb. Requests can then be
rerouted to different backend services. This can be used to perform header-based
routing or traffic splitting.

> 

Author: I'm not sure we should do that, given they start talking about Gateway listeners right off the bat, and deal with resources we don't support, which could be confusing?

> 

Reviewer: good point!

## HTTPRoute Spec

An `HTTPRoute` spec may contain the following top level fields:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `parentRefs`| A set of [ParentReference](#parentreference)s which indicate which [Servers](#server) or Services this `HTTPRoute` attaches to.|
| `hostnames`| A set of hostnames that should match against the HTTP Host header.|
| `rules`| An array of [HTTPRouteRules](#httprouterule).|
{{< /table >}}

### parentReference

> A reference to the [Servers] this `HTTPRoute` is a part of.

Author: :+1:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `group`| The group of the referent. This must either be "group.linkerd.io" (for Server) or "core" (for Service).|
| `kind`| The kind of the referent. This must be set to either "Server" or "Service".|
| `port`| The targeted port number, when attaching to Services.|
| `namespace`| The namespace of the referent. When unspecified (or empty string), this refers to the local namespace of the Route.|
| `name`| The name of the referent.|
{{< /table >}}

### httpRouteRule

`HTTPRouteRule` defines semantics for matching an HTTP request based on conditions
(matches) and processing it (filters).

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `matches`| A list of [httpRouteMatches](#httproutematch). Each match is independent, i.e. this rule will be matched if **any** one of the matches is satisfied.|
| `filters`| A list of [httpRouteFilters](#httproutefilter) which will be applied to each request which matches this rule.|

> | `backendRefs`| An array of [HTTPBackendRefs](#httpbackendref) to declare where the traffic should be routed to (only to be used with Service parentRefs).|

Reviewer: maybe:
```suggestion
| `backendRefs`| An array of [HTTPBackendRefs](#httpbackendref) to declare where the traffic should be routed to (only allowed with Service [parentRefs](#parentreference)).|
```

| `hostname`| The hostname to be used in the value of the `Location` header in the response. When empty, the hostname of the request is used.|
| `path`| An [httpPathModfier](#httppathmodfier) which modifies the path of the incoming request and uses the modified path in the `Location` header.|
| `port`| The port to be used in the value of the `Location` header in the response. When empty, port (if specified) of the request is used.|
| `statusCode`| The HTTP status code to be used in response.|
{{< /table >}}

### httpPathModfier

`HTTPPathModifier` defines configuration for path modifiers.

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `type`| One of: ReplaceFullPath, ReplacePrefixMatch.|
| `replaceFullPath`| The value with which to replace the full path of a request during a rewrite or redirect.|
| `replacePrefixMatch`| The value with which to replace the prefix match of a request during a rewrite or redirect.|
{{< /table >}}

### httpBackendRef

`HTTPBackendRef` defines the list of objects where matching requests should be
sent to. Only to be used with Service parentRefs.

> 

Author: See my comment above

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `name`| Name of service for this backend.|
| `port`| Destination port number for this backend.|

> | `weight`| Proportion of requests sent to this backend.|

Reviewer: a backend ref can also have a namespace: https://github.com/linkerd/linkerd2/blob/6e28aefc774f8746d8cc7536535261da5d135a3c/charts/linkerd-crds/templates/policy/httproute.yaml#L977

Author: Good point, I'll add that. But do we actually support cross-namespace traffic without ReferenceGrants?

{{< /table >}}

## HTTPRoute Examples

An `HTTPRoute` attached to a Server resource which matches GETs to
`/authors.json` or `/authors/*`:

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.linkerd.io/v1beta2
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: authors-get-route
  namespace: booksapp
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: authors-server
      kind: Server
      group: policy.linkerd.io
  rules:
    - matches:
      - path:
          value: "/authors.json"
        method: GET
      - path:
          value: "/authors/"
          type: "PathPrefix"
        method: GET
```

An `HTTPRoute` attached to a Service to perform header-based routing. If there's

> a `x-faces-user: testuser` header in the request the served backend is `smiley2`,
> otherwise `smiley` is served:

Reviewer: maybe:
```suggestion
a `x-faces-user: testuser` header in the request, the request is routed to the
`smiley2` backend Service. Otherwise, the request is routed to the `smiley`
backend Service.
```

+++
title = "HTTPRoute"
description = "Reference guide to HTTPRoute resources."
+++

## HTTPRoute Spec

An HTTPRoute spec may contain the following top level fields:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `parentRefs`| A set of [ParentReference](#parentreference)s which indicate which [Servers](#server) or Services this HTTPRoute attaches to.|
| `hostnames`| A set of hostnames that should match against the HTTP Host header.|
| `rules`| An array of [HTTPRouteRules](#httprouterule).|
{{< /table >}}

### parentReference

A reference to the parent resource this HTTPRoute is a part of.

HTTPRoutes can be attached to a [Server](../authorization-policy/#server) to
allow defining an [authorization
policy](../authorization-policy/#authorizationpolicy) for specific routes served
on that Server.

> HTTPRoutes can also be attached to a Service, in order to classify requests

Reviewer: not sure if i love the use of the term "classify" here, since that feels a little overloaded with response classification. how about 
```suggestion
HTTPRoutes can also be attached to a Service, in order to route requests
```

Reviewer 2: +1

depending on path, headers, query params, and/or verb. Requests can then be
rerouted to different backend services. This can be used to perform dynamic

> request routing.

Reviewer: maybe the phrase "dynamic request routing" should link to the dynamic request routing docs. we can add the link in that branch if this one merges first...

> A reference to the parent resource this HTTPRoute is a part of.

Author: I actually had a section at the beginning of the doc explaining this difference, but your point is taken, so I'm moving that into this subsection instead :+1:

{{< table >}}
| field| value |
|------|-------|
| `group`| The group of the referent. This must either be "policy.linkerd.io" (for Server) or "core" (for Service).|

> | `kind`| The kind of the referent. This must be set to either "Server" or "Service".|

Reviewer: nit, TIOLI:
```suggestion
| `kind`| The kind of the referent. This must be either "Server" or "Service".|
```
